[DOC] Updates to K8s install instructions (#52772)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/setup-grafana/installation/kubernetes.md

weight: 300
---

# Deploy Grafana on Kubernetes

This page explains how to install and run Grafana on Kubernetes (K8S). It uses Kubernetes manifests for the setup. If you prefer Helm, refer to the [Grafana Helm community charts](https://github.com/grafana/helm-charts).

## Deploy Grafana OS on Kubernetes

> This section explains how to install Grafana open source using Kubernetes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section explains how to install Grafana using Kubernetes. 
```

> If you are interested in Grafana Enterprise (not Grafana OS), jump to the [Deploy Grafana Enterprise on Kubernetes](#deploy-grafana-enterprise-on-kubernetes) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are interested in the Grafana Enterprise version of this information, see [Deploy Grafana Enterprise on Kubernetes](#deploy-grafana-enterprise-on-kubernetes).
```

### Create a Grafana Kubernetes manifest

1. Create a file called `grafana.yaml`.  

> 2. Copy and paste the contents below and save the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Copy and paste the following contents and save the file.
```

  type: LoadBalancer
```

> ### Send the manifest to Kubernetes API server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Send the manifest to Kubernetes the API server
```

## Deploy Grafana Enterprise on Kubernetes

> The process for deploying Grafana Enterprise is almost identical to the process above, except for some extra steps required to add in your license file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The process for deploying Grafana Enterprise is almost identical to the preceding process, except for additional steps that are required for adding your license file.
```

### Obtain Grafana Enterprise license

To run Grafana Enterprise, you need a valid license. 

> [Contact a Grafana Labs representative](https://grafana.com/contact?about=grafana-enterprise) to obtain the license. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To obtain the license, [contact a Grafana Labs representative](https://grafana.com/contact?about=grafana-enterprise). 
```

> This topic assumes that you already have done this and have a `license.jwt` file. 
> Your license should also be associated with a URL, which we will use later in the topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic assumes that you have a valid license in a `license.jwt` file.
Associate your license with a URL that you can use later in the topic.
```

```

> ### Create Configmap for Grafana Enterprise Configuration

Author: ```suggestion
### Create Configmap for Grafana Enterprise configuration
```

Create a Kubernetes Configmap from your `grafana.ini` file with the following command:

```bash
kubectl create configmap ge-config --from-file=/path/to/your/grafana.ini
```

### Create Grafana Enterprise Kubernetes manifest

> Create a `grafana.yaml` file, then paste the content below. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `grafana.yaml` file, and copy-and-paste the following content into it.
```
Please vet this for technical accuracy.

> This YAML is identical to the one for Grafana OS install except for the additional references to the Configmap which has your Grafana configuration file and the secret that has your license.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The YAML that follows is identical to the one for a Grafana installation, except for the additional references to the Configmap that contains your Grafana configuration file and the secret that has your license.
```

  sessionAffinity: None
  type: LoadBalancer
```
> **Note:** Using LoadBalancer in the Service may expose your Grafana instance to the Internet depending on your cloud platform and network configuration. Instead, you can use ClusterIP to restrict access from within the cluster Grafana is deployed to.

1. Send manifest to Kubernetes API Server
   `kubectl apply -f grafana.yaml`

> 2. Check that it worked by running the following:

Reviewer: Are these numbered because the numbering does not render correctly as `1.`, `1.`, `1.`? If so, leave as is; if not, revert such changes.

Reviewer: By default for numbered lists, we use a series of `1.`s.

Author: That's because VS Code automatically changes numbers. I have to find a way to turn that off.

Author: Updated and turned off auto numbering.

> 2. Check that it worked by running the following:

Author: ```suggestion
1. Check that it worked by running the following:
```

   `kubectl port-forward service/grafana 3000:3000`

> 3. Navigate to `localhost:3000` in your browser. You should see the Grafana login page.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to `localhost:3000` in your browser. You should see the Grafana login page.
```

> 4. Use `admin` for both the username and password to login.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Use `admin` for both the username and password to login.
```

  sessionAffinity: None
  type: LoadBalancer
```

> > **Note:** Using LoadBalancer in the Service may expose your Grafana instance to the Internet depending on your cloud platform and network configuration. Instead, you can use ClusterIP to restrict access from within the cluster Grafana is deployed to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Caution:** If you use `LoadBalancer` in the Service and depending on your cloud platform and network configuration, doing so might expose your Grafana instance to the Internet. To eliminate this risk, use `ClusterIP` to restrict access from within the cluster Grafana is deployed to.
```
What is the order: Note, Caution, Warning or Note, Warning, Caution, or something other order? I would use the level that is in the middle of the extremes.
